=== Rudder Agent workflow 

In this chapter, we will have a more detailled view of the Rudder Agent
workflow. What files and processes are created or modified at the installation
of the Rudder Agent? What is happening when a new Node is created? What are the
recurrent tasks performed by the Rudder Agent? How does the Rudder Server handle
the requests coming from the Rudder Agent? The Rudder Agent workflow schema
summarizes the process that will be described in the next pages.

["graphviz", "agent_workflow.png"]

.Rudder Agent workflow

-------

include::../graphviz/agent_workflow.dot[]

------

==== Installation of the Rudder Agent

===== Static files

At installation of the Rudder Agent, files and directories are created in
following places:

+/etc+:: Scripts to integrate Rudder Agent in the system (init, cron).

+/opt/rudder/share/initial-promises+:: Initialization promises for the Rudder
Agent. These promises are used until the Node has been validated in Rudder. They
are kept available at this place afterwards.

+/opt/rudder/lib/perl5+:: The FusionInventory Inventory tool and its Perl
dependencies.

+/opt/rudder/bin/run-inventory+:: Wrapper script to launch the inventory.

+/opt/rudder/sbin+:: Binaries for CFEngine Community.

+/var/rudder/cfengine-community+:: This is the working directory for CFEngine
Community. 

===== Generated files

At the end of installation, the CFEngine Community working directory is
populated for first use, and unique identifiers for the Node are generated.

+/var/rudder/cfengine-community/bin/+:: CFEngine Community binaries are copied
there.

+/var/rudder/cfengine-community/inputs+:: Contains the actual working CFEngine
Community promises. Initial promises are copied here at installation. After
validation of the Node, Applied Policies, which are the CFEngine promises
generated by Rudder for this particular Node, will be stored here.

+/var/rudder/cfengine-community/ppkeys+:: An unique SSL key generated for the
Node at installation time.

+/opt/rudder/etc/uuid.hive+:: An unique identifier for the Node is generated
into this file.

===== Services

After all of these files are in place, the CFEngine Community daemons are
launched:

include::../glossary/cf-execd.txt[]

include::../glossary/cf-serverd.txt[]

===== Configuration

At this point, you should configure the Rudder Agent to actually enable the
contact with the server. Type in the IP address of the Rudder Root Server in the
following file:

----

echo *root_server_IP_address* > /var/rudder/cfengine-community/policy_server.dat

----

==== Tasks executed by Rudder Agent on the Node

Let's consider the Rudder Agent is installed and configured on the new Node.

The Rudder Agent is regularly launched and performs following tasks
sequencially, in this order: 

===== Request data from Rudder Server

The first action of Rudder Agent is to fetch the +tools+ directory from Rudder
Server. This directory is located at +/opt/rudder/share/tools+ on the Rudder
Server and at +/var/rudder/tools+ on the Node. If this directory is already
present, only changes will be updated.

The agent then try to fetch new Applied Policies from Rudder Server. Only
requests from valid Nodes will be accepted. At first run and until the Node has
been validated in Rudder, this step fails.

===== Launch processes

Ensure that the CFEngine community daemons +cf-execd+ and +cf-serverd+ are
running. Try to start these daemons if they are not already started.

Daily between 5:00 and 5:05, relaunch the CFEngine Community daemons +cf-execd+
and +cf-serverd+.

Add a line in +/etc/crontab+ to launch +cf-execd+ if it's not running.

Ensure again that the CFEngine community daemons +cf-execd+ and +cf-serverd+
are running. Try to start these daemons if they are not already started.

===== Identify Rudder Root Server

Ensure the +curl+ package is installed. Install the package if it's not
present.

Get the identifier of the Rudder Root Server, necessary to generate reports.
The URL of the identifier is http://Rudder_root_server/uuid


===== Inventory

If no inventory has been sent since 8 hours, or if a forced inventory has been
requested (class +force_inventory+ is defined), do and send an inventory to the
server.
----

user@node:~$ sudo /var/rudder/cfengine-community/bin/cf-agent -KI -Dforce_inventory=true

----

No reports are generated until the Node has been validated in Rudder Server.

===== Syslog

After validation of the Node, the system log service of the Node is configured
to send reports regularly to the server. Supported system log providers are:
+syslogd+, +rsyslogd+ and +syslog-ng+.

===== Apply Policy Instances

Apply other policies and write reports locally.

==== Rudder Agent interactive

You can force the Rudder Agent to run from the console and observe what happens.

----

user@node:~$ sudo /var/rudder/cfengine-community/bin/cf-agent -KI

----

[CAUTION]

.Error: the name of the Rudder Root Server can't be resolved

====

If the Rudder Root Server name is not resolvable, the Rudder Agent will issue
this error:

----

user@node:~$ sudo /var/rudder/cfengine-community/bin/cf-agent -KI 

Unable to lookup hostname (rudder-root) or cfengine service: Name or service not known

----

To fix it, either you set up the agent to use the IP adress of the Rudder root
server instead of its Domain name, either you set up accurately the name
resolution of your Rudder Root Server, in your DNS server or in the hosts file.

The Rudder Root Server name is defined in this file

----

root@node:~# echo *IP_of_root_server* > /var/rudder/cfengine-community/policy_server.dat

----

====

[CAUTION]

.Error: the CFEngine service is not responding on the Rudder Root Server

====

If the CFEngine is stopped on the Rudder Root Server you will get this error:

----

user@node:~$ sudo /var/rudder/cfengine-community/bin/cf-agent -KI 
 !! Error connecting to server (timeout)
 !!! System error for connect: "Operation now in progress"
 !! No server is responding on this port
Unable to establish connection with rudder-root

----

Restart the CFEngine service:

----

user@rudder-root:~$ sudo /var/rudder/cfengine-community/bin/cf-serverd

----

====

==== Processing new inventories on the server

===== Verify the inventory has been received by the Rudder Root Server

There is some delay between the time when the first inventory of the Node is
sent, and the time when the Node appears in the New Nodes of the web interface.
For the brave and impatient, you can check if the inventory was sent by listing
incoming Nodes on the server:

----

ls /var/rudder/inventories/incoming/

----

===== Process incoming inventories

On the next run of the CFEngine agent on Rudder Root Server, the new inventory
will be detected and sent to the Inventory Endpoint. The inventory will be then
moved in the directory of received inventories. The the Inventory Endpoint do
its job and the new Node appears in the interface. 

You can force the execution of CFEngine agent on the console:

----

user@rudder-root:~$ sudo /var/rudder/cfengine-community/bin/cf-agent -KI

----

===== Validate new Nodes

User interaction is required to validate new Nodes.

===== Prepare policies for the Node

Policies are not shared between the Nodes for obvious security and
confidentiality reasons. Each Node has its own set of policies. Policies are
generated for Nodes according in the following states:

. Node is new;

. Inventory has changed;

. Policy Template has changed;

. Policy Instance has changed;

. Group of Node has changed;

. Configuration Rule has changed;

. Regeneration was forced by the user.

["graphviz", "generate_policy_workflow.png"]

.Generate policy workflow

-------

include::../graphviz/generate_policy_workflow.dot[]

------

