// FIXME: this list should be generated from PT source code see
// https://redmine.normation.com/issues/1621 when it is done, uncomment following
// line and delete uneeded paragraphs: include::../temp/available_pt.txt

===== Application management

Apache 2 HTTP server:: This Policy Template will configure the Apache HTTP
server and ensure it is running. It will ensure the "apache2" package is
installed (via the appropriate packaging tool for each OS), ensure the service
is running and start it if not and ensure the service is configured to run on
initial system startup. Configuration will create a rudder vhost file.

APT package manager configuration:: Configure the apt-get and aptitude tools on
GNU/Linux Debian and Ubuntu, especially the source repositories.

OpenVPN client:: This Policy Template will configure the OpenVPN client service
and ensure it is running. It will ensure the "openvpn" package is installed (via
the appropriate packaging tool for each OS), ensure the service is running and
start it if not and ensure the service is configured to run on initial system
startup. Configuration will create a rudder.conf file. As of this version, only
the PSK peer identification method is supported, please use the "Download File"
Policy Template to distribute the secret key.

Package management for Debian / Ubuntu / APT based systems:: Install, update or
delete packages, automatically and consistently on GNU/Linux Debian and Ubuntu.
   
Package management for RHEL / CentOS / RPM based systems:: Install, update or
delete packages, automatically and consistently on GNU/Linux CentOS and RHEL.

===== Distributing files

Copy a file:: Copy a file on the machine

Distribute ssh keys:: Distribute ssh keys on servers

Download a file:: Download a file for a standard URL (HTTP/FTP), and set
permissions on the downloaded file.

===== File state configuration

Set the permissions of files:: Set the permissions of files

===== System settings: Miscellaneous

Time settings:: Set up the time zone, the NTP server, and the frequency of time
synchronisation to the hardware clock. Also ensures that the NTP service is
installed and started.

===== System settings: Networking

Hosts settings:: Configure the contents of the hosts filed on any operating
system (Linux and Windows).
    
IPv4 routing management:: Control IPv4 routing on any system (Linux and
Windows), with four possible actions: add, delete (changes will be made), check
presence or check absence (a warning may be returned, but no changes will be
made) for a given route.
 
Name resolution:: Set up the IP address of the DNS server name, and the default
search domain.

NFS Server:: Configure a NFS server

===== System settings: Process 

Process Management:: Enforce defined parameters on system processes

===== System settings: Remote access

OpenSSH server:: Install and set up the SSH service on Linux nodes. Many
parameters are available.

===== System settings: User management

Group management:: This Policy Template manages the target host(s) groups. It
will ensure that the defined groups are present on the system.

Sudo utility configuration:: This Policy Template configures the sudo utility.
It will ensure that the defined rights for given users and groups are correctly
defined.

User management:: Control users on any system (Linux and Windows), including
passwords, with four possible actions: add, delete (changes will be made), check
presence or check absence (a warning may be returned, but no changes will be
made) for a given user.

