== Node Management

[[inventory, Node Inventory]]

=== Node Inventory

Rudder integrates a node inventory tool which harvest useful informations
about the nodes. These informations are used by Rudder to handle the nodes, and
you can use the inventory informations for Configuration Management purpose:
search Nodes, create Groups of Nodes, determine some configuration management
variables. 

In the Rudder Web Interface, each time you see a Node name, you can click on it
and display the collection of informations about this Node. The inventory is
organized as following: first tab is a 'summary' of administrative informations
about the Node; other tabs are specialized for 'hardware', 'network' interfaces,
and 'software' for every Nodes; tabs for 'reports' and 'logs' are added on
Rudder managed Nodes.

The 'Node Summary' presents administrative informations like the Node
'Hostname', 'Operating System', 'Rudder Client name', 'Rudder ID' and 'Date'
when the inventory was 'last received'. When the Node has been validated, some
more informations are displayed like the Node 'Name' and the 'Date first
accepted in Rudder'.

The 'hardware' informations are organized as following: 'General', 'File
systems', 'Bios', 'Controllers', 'Memory', 'Port', 'Processor', 'Slot', 'Sound',
'Storage', 'Video'.

'Network' connexions are detailled as following: 'Name' of the interface on the
system, 'IP address', 'Network Mask', usage of 'DHCP' or static configuration,
'MAC address', 'Type' of connexion, 'Speed' of the connexion and 'Status'.

And finally, you get the list of every packaged 'software' present on the
system, including version and description.

On Nodes managed by Rudder, the 'Reports' tab displays informations about the
status of latest run of Rudder Agent, whereas the 'Logs' tab displays
informations about changes for the Node.

